Neutro is a local-first prototype for user-controlled interface adaptation. It changes presentation only from explicit choices and makes no medical claim.
The Adaptation Studio starts with three transparent profiles: Balanced, Reading focus, and Low stimulation.
Reading focus increases text spacing and simplifies the content width. Low stimulation softens contrast, reduces motion, and removes decorative intensity.
Every dimension remains editable: typeface, size, line and letter spacing, contrast, motion, sensory load, layout, and focus assistance. A manual change becomes a Custom profile.
The preview changes immediately. The explanation panel describes each active rule in plain language, including whether reduced motion comes from Neutro or the operating system.
Preferences persist only in this browser. Reloading restores the custom state; Reset returns to a safe Balanced profile that follows system motion.
Native labeled controls, visible keyboard focus, and a live status summary support keyboard and screen-reader navigation.
Reading, Local Replay, and the Camera Signal prototype are optional labs. Replay and camera are off by default, and camera heuristics never change adaptation preferences.
The verified core is deterministic local adaptation with tested rules and no account or cloud dependency. The current limitation is browser-local persistence, not cross-device personalization.
Neutro by badugujashwanth-create. User choice stays in control.